Terraform / TFE glossary (#699)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/glossary.html.md

Terraform Enterprise (TFE) Glossary

## API

"Application Programming Interface". Any interface designed to allow programatic manipulation of some kind of software system. For most software developers today, the most common kinds of APIs are based on HTTP requests.

Terraform relies on cloud service provider APIs to manage resources; each service's Terraform provider is responsible for mapping Terraform's resource model to the series of actual API calls necessary to create, check, modify, or delete a real infrastructure resource in that cloud service.

Terraform Enterprise also offers its own API, for managing resources like team membership, policies, and workspaces. That API, in turn, is used by the `tfe` Terraform provider, so you can use Terraform to manage the system that runs Terraform for you.

> - [TFE docs: API](/docs/enterprise/api/index.html)

Reviewer: I'm wondering if the bulleted links should be prefixed with `*See also:*` to give them more context. But I'm also feeling like maybe that's not necessary.

Author: I initially did that, and then rethought it. Could still go either way!

- [TFE docs: About Runs](/docs/enterprise/run/index.html)

## Apply (verb)

To make changes to real infrastructure in order to make it match the desired state (as specified by a Terraform config and set of variables).

In conversation, it's common to refer to "applying a plan" (usually in the context of TFE's workflow) or "applying a configuration" (usually in the context of the Terraform CLI workflow).

- [Terraform docs: The `terraform apply` command](/docs/commands/apply.html)
- [TFE docs: About Runs](/docs/enterprise/run/index.html)

## Backend

The part of Terraform's core that determine how Terraform stores state and performs operations (like plan, apply, import, etc.). Backends are not plugins (and there are no third-party backends), but Terraform has multiple backends to choose from, which can be configured in a variety of ways.

In a general computer science sense, a backend is any lower-level implementation that enables a higher-level feature. But in the context of Terraform, "backend" always means the built-in code that handles state and operations.

- [Terraform docs: Backends](/docs/backends/index.html)

## Blob Storage

> An API service for storing and retrieving arbitrary chunks of data using opaque addresses.

Reviewer: Could maybe use an example?

- [Terraform docs: Commands (CLI)](/docs/commands/index.html)

## Commit

In a version control system: A coherent set of changes saved to a repository's version history.

In Git, commits act like a complete snapshot of the contents of a repo, on a specific branch (or group of branches with shared history) and at a specific moment in time. Each commit also records the identity of its parent(s), which enables viewing the entire history of the repo up to any specific moment. Additionally, comparing a commit to its parent(s) can reveal the exact changes introduced by that commit; if those changes are applied as a diff, they can be added to a different branch in the repo without merging in the entire history of the commit in question.

## (Terraform) Configuration

Also "config".

Code written in Terraform's configuration language that declaratively describes the desired state of your infrastructure. A complete config consists of a root module, which can optionally call any number of child modules.

- [Terraform docs: Configuration Language](/docs/configuration/index.html)
- [Introduction to Terraform](/intro/index.html)

## Configuration Version

> -> Terraform Enterprise

Reviewer: I like the idea to add the labels to signify TFE-specific terms.

- [Root Outputs](#root-outputs)
- [Run](#run)
- [S3](#s3)
- [SAML](#saml)
- [Service Account](#service-account)
- [Sentinel](#sentinel)
- [Site Admin](#site-admin)
- [Speculative Plan](#speculative-plan)
- [SSH Key](#ssh-key)
- [State](#state)
- [State Version](#state-version)
- [Team](#team)
- [Terraform](#terraform)
- [TFE](#tfe)
- [Trigger](#trigger)
- [(API) Token](#api-token)
- [Terraform Version](#terraform-version)
- [Variables](#variables)
- [VCS](#vcs)
- [VCS Provider](#vcs-provider)
- [Webhook](#webhook)
- [Working Directory](#working-directory)
- [Workspace](#workspace)

</div>

## API

[api]: glossary.html#api
[apis]: glossary.html#api

"Application Programming Interface". Any interface designed to allow programatic manipulation of some kind of software system. For most software developers today, the most common kinds of APIs are based on HTTP requests.

Terraform relies on cloud service provider APIs to manage resources; each service's Terraform provider is responsible for mapping Terraform's resource model to the series of actual API calls necessary to create, check, modify, or delete a real infrastructure resource in that cloud service.

> Terraform Enterprise also offers its own API, for managing resources like team membership, policies, and workspaces. That API, in turn, is used by the `tfe` Terraform provider, so you can use Terraform to manage the system that runs Terraform for you.

Author: definitely

Most of a Terraform configuration consists of using arguments to configure Terraform [resources][]. Each resource type defines the arguments its resources can use, the allowed values for each argument, and which arguments are required or optional. Info about a given resource type can be found in the docs for that resource's [provider][].

- [Terraform docs: Config Language — Arguments, Blocks and Expressions](/docs/configuration/index.html#arguments-blocks-and-expressions)

## Attribute

[attribute]: glossary.html#attribute
[attributes]: glossary.html#attribute

In Terraform's [configuration][] language: a named piece of data that belongs to some kind of object. The value of an attribute can be referenced in [expressions][] using a dot-separated notation, like `aws_instance.example.id`.

Terraform [resources][] and [data sources][] make all of their [arguments][] available as readable attributes, and also typically export additional read-only attributes.

- [Terraform docs: Expressions — Indices and Attributes](/docs/configuration/expressions.html#indices-and-attributes)

## Backend

[backend]: glossary.html#backend
[backends]: glossary.html#backend

> The part of Terraform's core that determines how Terraform stores [state][] and performs [operations][remote operations] (like [plan][], [apply][], import, etc.). Backends are not plugins (and there are no third-party backends), but Terraform has multiple backends to choose from, which can be configured in a variety of ways.

Author: ```suggestion
The part of Terraform's core that determines how Terraform stores [state][] and performs [operations][remote operations] (like [plan][], [apply][], import, etc.). Terraform has multiple backends to choose from, which can be configured in a variety of ways. Backends are not plugins, so it is not possible to install additional backends.
```

## Block

[block]: glossary.html#block
[blocks]: glossary.html#block

In Terraform's [configuration][] language: a container for other content which usually represents the configuration of some kind of object, like a [resource][]. Blocks have a _block type,_ can have zero or more _labels,_ and have a _body_ that contains any number of [arguments][] and nested blocks. Most of Terraform's features are controlled by top-level blocks in a configuration file.

```hcl
resource "aws_vpc" "main" {
  cidr_block = var.base_cidr_block
}

<BLOCK TYPE> "<BLOCK LABEL>" "<BLOCK LABEL>" {
  # Block body
  <IDENTIFIER> = <EXPRESSION> # Argument
}
```

- [Terraform docs: Config Language — Arguments, Blocks and Expressions](/docs/configuration/index.html#arguments-blocks-and-expressions)

## Branch

[branch]: glossary.html#branch
[branches]: glossary.html#branch

In some [version control systems][vcs]: a semi-independent history of changes to content in a repository. A branch generally shares some history with other branches in the same repository, but eventually diverges to include changes that aren't yet present elsewhere.

> A repository usually has a default branch (whose name, in [Git][], defaults to `master`), which successful changes are eventually merged into. Most modern development workflows also include topic branches (where a specific set of changes is explored, iterated on, and verified), and some workflows include long-lived branches other than the default branch (usually for maintaining older but still supported versions of software).

Author: ```suggestion
A repository usually has a default branch (whose name, in [Git][], defaults to `master`), which successful changes are eventually merged into. Most modern development workflows also include topic branches (where a specific set of changes is explored, iterated on, and verified), and some workflows include long-lived branches other than the default branch.
```

👍🏼

## CLI

[cli]: glossary.html#cli

> Command-line interface. The `terraform` tool and its subcommands use a CLI to accept instructions and return text output.

Author: 👍🏼 

```suggestion
Command-line interface. The `terraform` command expects to be run in a CLI (a Unix shell or the Windows command prompt), which it uses to accept instructions and return text output.
```

- [Wikipedia: Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface)
- [Terraform docs: Commands (CLI)](/docs/commands/index.html)

## Commit

[commit]: glossary.html#commit
[commits]: glossary.html#commit

In a [version control system][vcs]: A coherent set of changes saved to a repository's version history.

In Git, commits act like a complete snapshot of the contents of a repo, on a specific [branch][] (or group of branches with shared history) and at a specific moment in time. Each commit also records the identity of its parent(s), which enables viewing the entire history of the repo up to any specific moment. Additionally, comparing a commit to its parent(s) can reveal the exact changes introduced by that commit; if those changes are applied as a diff, they can be added to a different branch in the repo without merging in the entire history of the commit in question.

## (Terraform) Configuration

[configuration]: glossary.html#terraform-configuration
[configurations]: glossary.html#terraform-configuration
[config]: glossary.html#terraform-configuration
[configs]: glossary.html#terraform-configuration

Also "config".

> Code written in Terraform's configuration language that declaratively describes the desired state of your infrastructure. A complete config consists of a [root module][], which can optionally call any number of child [modules][].

Author: 👍🏼 

```suggestion
Code written in [Terraform's configuration language][hcl] that declaratively describes the desired state of your infrastructure. A complete config consists of a [root module][], which can optionally call any number of child [modules][].
```

HashiCorp Configuration Language. The structured configuration syntax that serves as the basis for Terraform's [configuration][] language, as well as the configuration layer for several other HashiCorp products.

HCL establishes the syntax Terraform uses for things like [arguments][], [blocks][], literal values, and [expressions][]. But what most people think of as the Terraform language extends beyond just the syntax; the built-in functions, Terraform-specific block types (like `resource` and `variable`), and Terraform-specific named values available in expressions are all implementation details of Terraform itself.

- [GitHub: HCL](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl)
- [Terraform docs: Configuration Language](/docs/configuration/index.html)

## ID

[id]: glossary.html#id
[ids]: glossary.html#id

An identifier; an opaque string permanently associated with a specific object, which doesn't contain any information about the object but which can be used to retrieve information about it or perform actions on it via an [API][].

In Terraform, many [resource][] types have an ID [attribute][] that helps link Terraform's [state][] to the real infrastructure resource being managed.

> In Terraform Enterprise, most internal application objects (like [workspaces][], users, [policies][], etc.) can be identified by both a name (possibly including the parents, for disambiguation) and by an opaque, permanent ID. Most API endpoints use IDs instead of names, since names sometimes change. IDs for TFE's application objects are sometimes called "external IDs."

Author: That, yeah. Probably unnecessary.

```suggestion
In Terraform Enterprise, most internal application objects (like [workspaces][], users, [policies][], etc.) can be identified by both a name and by an opaque, permanent ID. Most API endpoints use IDs instead of names, since names sometimes change. IDs for TFE's application objects are sometimes called "external IDs."
```

-> Terraform Enterprise

The process of bringing content into Terraform Enterprise. Usually that content is a [configuration version][], but it can also be a [private module][] version or some other kind of content.

This term comes from TFE's internal subsystems. Most documentation and UI avoids using "ingress," but it can sometimes appear in API contexts or support conversations.

## JSON

[json]: glossary.html#json

"JavaScript Object Notation". A popular text-based data interchange format, which can represent strings, numbers, booleans, null, arrays, and objects/maps.

Terraform and Terraform Enterprise often interact with JSON data in order to consume or provide APIs. Terraform also supports JSON as an alternate format for [configurations][].

- [Wikipedia: JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Json)
- [Terraform docs: JSON Configuration Syntax](/docs/configuration/syntax-json.html)

## Locking

[locking]: glossary.html#locking
[lock]: glossary.html#locking

-> Terraform Enterprise

The ability to prevent new [runs][] from starting in a given [workspace][]. Workspaces are automatically locked while a run is in progress, and can also be manually locked.

> Some other Terraform [backends][] can also lock state during runs.

Author: Hmm, I think I chained together two thoughts that weren't actually nearby in the page. 

```suggestion
The [`remote` backend][remote backend] respects the lock status in Terraform Enterprise workspaces. Some other Terraform [backends][] can also lock state during runs.
```

[modules]: glossary.html#module

Also "Terraform module".

A self-contained collection of Terraform [configurations][] that manages a collection of related infrastructure resources.

Other Terraform configurations can _call_ a module, which tells Terraform to manage any resources described by that module.

Modules define [input variables][] (which the calling module can set values for) and [output values][] (which the calling module can reference in [expressions][]).

- [Terraform docs: Modules](/docs/modules/index.html)

## OAuth

[oauth]: glossary.html#oauth

An open standard for token-based authorization between applications on the internet.

Terraform Enterprise uses OAuth to connect your organization to your [VCS provider][]. Generally takes an `id` and `secret` from your VCS provider to give access to TFE and allow it to download configuration from the provider.

- [TFE docs: VCS Integration](/docs/enterprise/vcs/index.html)

## OAuth Client

[oauth client]: glossary.html#oauth-client
[oauth clients]: glossary.html#oauth-client

-> Terraform Enterprise

The set of configuration that a TFE organization needs in order to connect to a specific [VCS provider][].

> An OAuth client needs an [OAuth token][] in order to actually access data belonging to a user or organization in that VCS provider. The client can be created with an existing token for that VCS provider (when created via TFE's API), or it can be created with the details TFE needs in order to request a token. Requesting a token requires a user to click through and approve access with their VCS provider account.

Author: ```suggestion
An OAuth client needs an [OAuth token][] in order to actually access data belonging to a user or organization in that VCS provider. The client can be created with an existing token for that VCS provider (API-only, and not supported for some VCS providers), or it can be created with the details TFE needs in order to request a token. Requesting a token requires a user to click through and approve access with their VCS provider account.
```

- [TFE docs: VCS Integration](/docs/enterprise/vcs/index.html)
- [TFE API docs: OAuth Clients](/docs/enterprise/api/oauth-clients.html)

## OAuth Token

[oauth token]: glossary.html#oauth-token
[oauth tokens]: glossary.html#oauth-token

-> Terraform Enterprise

> The access token that a TFE organization needs in order to access data belonging to a user or organization in a specific [VCS provider][]. The token is granted by the VCS provider, and allows access with whatever permissions that VCS provider assigns to the token.

Author: Ah, good call. I can't remember that, but that's not to say you didn't say it to me. 😅

I'm gonna do this one directly in the file, since it spans a few paragraphs.

Also "root-level outputs".

The [output values][] of a configuration's [root module][]. A [configuration][] can access the root outputs of another configuration with a `terraform_remote_state` data source.

## Run

[run]: glossary.html#run
[runs]: glossary.html#run

Also "Terraform Run".

The process of using Terraform to make real infrastructure match the desired state (as specified by the contents of the config and variables at a specific moment in time).

In Terraform Enterprise, runs are performed in a series of stages ([plan][], [policy check][], and [apply][]), though not every stage occurs in every run. TFE saves information about historical runs.

- [Learn Terraform: Getting Started](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html)
- [TFE docs: About Runs](/docs/enterprise/run/index.html)

## S3

[s3]: glossary.html#s3

Amazon Web Services' "Simple Storage Service", a service for storing and retrieving arbitrary blobs of data.

Many other cloud or self-hosted services provide [APIs][] that are compatible with S3's API, which allows them to be used with software that was designed to work with S3.

Terraform's `aws` [provider][] can manage S3 resources.

> Private Terraform Enterprise uses an S3-compatible [blob storage][] service when configured to use external services for storage.

Author: Ah thanks, I didn't know that!

[site admins]: glossary.html#site-admin

-> Terraform Enterprise

An administrator of a [Private Terraform Enterprise][] instance, who has access to application settings that affect all [organizations][] using the instance.

- [PTFE docs: Administration](/docs/enterprise/private/admin/index.html)

## Speculative Plan

[speculative plan]: glossary.html#speculative-plan
[speculative plans]: glossary.html#speculative-plan

-> Terraform Enterprise

A [run][] that is only intended to show possible changes to infrastructure, when using a given [config version][] and set of [variables][]. Speculative plans can never be [applied][apply-v], and are usually started as a result of [pull requests][] to a [workspace][]'s repo, or by running `terraform plan` on the command line with [remote operations][] configured.

## SSH Key

[ssh key]: glossary.html#ssh-key
[ssh keys]: glossary.html#ssh-key

A type of access credential based on public key cryptography, used to log into servers.

TFE uses SSH private keys for two kinds of operations:

- Downloading private Terraform [modules][] with [Git][]-based sources during a Terraform run. Keys for downloading modules are assigned per-workspace.

> - Bringing content from a connected [VCS provider][] into TFE, usually when downloading a Terraform [configuration][] for a [workspace][] or importing a module into the [private module registry][]. Only some VCS providers require an SSH key, but others can optionally use SSH instead of the provider's normal API.

Author: I thiiiiiink that for the non-bitbucket-server VCSes, we actually don't clone in the normal sense, and just use their API to download a zipped archive of the contents for a given SHA. But your edit works either way, so eh.

- [Wikipedia: SSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell)
- [TFE docs: SSH Keys for Cloning Modules](/docs/enterprise/workspaces/ssh-keys.html)

## State

[state]: glossary.html#state

Terraform's cached information about your managed infrastructure and [configuration][]. This state is used to persistently map the same real world [resources][] to your configuration from run-to-run, keep track of metadata, and improve performance for large infrastructures.

Without state, Terraform has no way to identify the real resources it created during previous runs. Thus, when multiple people are collaborating on shared infrastructure, it's important to store state in a shared location, like a free Terraform Enterprise organization.

- [Terraform docs: State](/docs/state/index.html)

## State Version

[state version]: glossary.html#state-version
[state versions]: glossary.html#state-version

-> Terraform Enterprise

> A snapshot of your infrastructure's [state][] at a point in time. Can be manually uploaded to TFE or created as the result of an [apply][].

Reviewer 2: It's funny that you used the word "snapshot" in the prose here because I was going to point out that Terraform CLI calls these "state _snapshots_", as opposed to versions. I tend to think that "version" connotes an intentionally-created/curated snapshot (like a software release, or a git tag) while this is literally just a copy of the state as it existed at some arbitrary point in time, as you wrote.

The comment I left in reply to @armchairlinguist below also relied on the concept of "snapshot", and I think that terminology makes it easier to explain Terraform CLI's behavior: it will, at various points, take a snapshot of the current state and write it to the backend. The backend is then responsible for storing _at least_ the latest snapshot, and optionally historical snapshots.

Perhaps this idea of "state version" is too far gone at this point to change, but I can't help but feel it gives the concept more levity than it deserves.

Reviewer: I think the "snapshot" word came from my initial write-up, which stemmed from our conversations a while back. This may or may not be a great spot to start correcting people's understanding of our state handling, in spite of our "version" wording. Seems like it would need clarified here _and_ in other docs at some point if we wanted to go ahead and do that. Otherwise maybe leave it out of this doc for now?

Author: @apparentlymart I hear you about "version" implying more _intent_ than it actually involves. But since the UI and API today both use the term, I'm sticking with it in the glossary for now. But I'll revise that definition to carry a little more context — thank you for the explanations!

> Unlike TFE, Terraform CLI doesn't track historical state versions, and only retains the most recent state.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this one is a little tricky and I'm not sure how much precision is needed here, but I think the most honest way to say this is that Terraform CLI writes a snapshot of the state to the backend after each change and it depends on the backend whether historical versions are available. (For example, you can configure S3 to retain historical snapshots too.)

The directory where `terraform init` runs, creating a `.terraform` subdirectory. All subsequent commands for the same [configuration][] should then be run from the same working directory.

The [root module][] consists of all of the configuration files in the top level of Terraform's working directory. Subdirectories of the working directory can contain child [modules][].

## Workspace

[workspace]: glossary.html#workspace
[workspaces]: glossary.html#workspace

In Terraform CLI, a workspace is an isolated instance of [state][] data. Using multiple workspaces lets you manage multiple non-overlapping sets of infrastructure from a single [configuration][] in a single [working directory][].

In Terraform Enterprise, a workspace is a complex object that represents everything needed to manage a specific collection of infrastructure resources over time. In particular, this includes:

- A Terraform [configuration][] (which has multiple versions over time, and which can come from a repo or from manual uploads)
- A set of [variables][]
- [State][] data that represents the current and historical condition of the infrastructure
- Historical information about [runs][].

> All TFE runs occur in the context of a workspace — they use that workspace's config data, use that workspaces' state to identify the real infrastructure being managed, and edit that workspaces' state to match any infrastructure changes during the run. A workspace belongs to an [organization][].

Author: UGH! thank you.
